Hello, everyone.
I think this lesson should be a lot of fun because we've already done all of the heavy lifting and now
we just get to bring all of the pieces together.
Let me show you what I mean.
So in this lesson, we're going to set things up so that when you like a professor, if your request
is successful, we're going to update the like box in real time so the heart will fill in and the count
will be increased by one on the fly.
And then if you click the box again, we will set up the server side to delete or remove a like, OK.
So right now, let's begin writing JavaScript to make that happen.
But first, I do want you to navigate to a professor page that you have not yet liked.
So if that means you need to go into your admin dashboard and delete a few light posts, that's OK.
Either way, once you've navigated to a professor that you have not like yet, we are ready to jump
into our JavaScript over in the text editor within our theme folders, JS modules folder I will hop
into like J.S. Let's find our method that is named create like and within its Ajax call, let's focus
on our success callback function.
So maybe right above the console log line.
Let's say if our request is successful, what do we want to do?
First, let's fill in the outline of the heart.
So let's say current like Fox, remember, this is the variable that we created up here that will always
point towards the actual parent span element with a class of lightbox.
OK, so again, down in our success function, I'm saying current like box and then I just want to adjust
its data attribute, which is named data exists.
I want to update it to have a value of yes.
So let's say dot 8r for an attribute.
OK, and then within these parentheses we provide two arguments.
The first is the name of the attribute that you want to work with.
So let's say data, Dasch exists.
And the second argument is what you want to set the value to.
So let's say yes.
Oops.
And it looks like I have a typo here.
I have three hours instead of just two in the word current.
OK, so this line of code will update the hollow outline of a heart to be a solid filled in hard.
Next, we want to increment the count number by one.
So let me show you how I would do that.
Right below this new line that we just wrote, let's create a variable named like Count, you could
name it whatever you want, but let's set that to equal.
And first, let's use query to fetch whatever the current number says.
So to do that, I'll set this variable to equal current like box, which is the overall parent span
element, and then let's say find.
And that actual count number lives within an inner span that has a class of like Dasch count.
OK, and then to fetch that number, we just want to get the HTML for that element.
This line of code could potentially get fairly long.
So right now, let's be sure to end the line with a semicolon.
OK, so this code at the moment will indeed fetch the HTML value of zero.
However, it's going to fetch zero as a string of text instead of an actual number or integer.
So what we can do to convert this from a string of text into an actual number that we can perform mathematical
operations on, is this right before this, let's say pass?
And this is a JavaScript tool that will pass a string of text as a number within its parentheses.
We want to give it to things.
So A and B, the first argument is a string of text that you want to interpret as a number.
And the second argument is a number that you want to use as your base.
I won't get into the details of this argument, but I will tell you that almost nine times out of ten
we want to set this to ten, because you and I are humans and humans tend to use a number system that
is based around ten.
OK, now back to the first argument, which is the string of text you want to interpret as a number.
Let's just cut and paste this code to live here so I will select from the beginning of current all the
way to the end of parentheses right after HTML.
Let me cut that into my clipboard and then just replace the A placeholder.
OK, so now we've got this variable named like Count, which is an actual number that represents the
current number of likes.
But if we just successfully created a new like post, now we want to increment or add one to that number.
So on a new line right below that, let's just say like count plus plus in most programming languages,
if you include plus plus after a number, that will increment it by one.
OK, now finally, we want to output that new number into the HTML, right.
We want to update the current number.
So to do that, let's say current like box and let's look inside it and find the element that has a
class of like Dasch count and then we want to update its HTML and what do we want to update it to our
life count.
Right.
That variable that we've been creating.
OK, let's go ahead and save this.
Make sure that your JavaScript is getting rebundled and then back on the front end, be sure to perform
a hard refresh.
And let's test it out, so if I click the lightbox.
Awesome.
Now let's change gears and work on the ability to click on the box again to toggle or remove or delete
your like for the current professor in the first step towards making that happen is for us to review
our JavaScript that sends off the delete request.
So back in our JavaScript, right below our create like method is our delete like method.
So we've got an Ajax call that sending off a request to the same you URL.
But this time the type of request is a delete.
But the important question here is what exactly are we trying to delete?
So we need to send along some sort of data concerning what we want to delete.
So maybe right above this typed line, let's add a new line and say data column and then let's create
a JavaScript object with curly brackets and be sure to end the line with a comma.
And this is where we can send along a property to the server so we could make up whatever property name
we want.
But why don't we just say, like Colon?
And then this is where we will include the ID number of the lightpost that we want to delete.
But at the moment, our JavaScript has no way of magically knowing which like post or which ID we should
delete.
So let's go update our HTML so that the lightbox contains a data attribute, maybe named data dash like,
and its value should be the ID number of the corresponding like post.
So to edit this HTML, let's jump back into our text editor and open up a single dash.
Professor P.
And let's scroll down until we find the main span with a class of lightbox and maybe right after class,
let's just give it another data attribute.
So I will say data dash and you can name it whatever you want, but let's say like equals.
And then within the quotes, let's drop in to BHP and echo out our exist query.
Right.
Because this will contain results if the current user has liked the current professor.
And then let's look inside it for an array named posts.
And we are interested in the first post in that array.
So square brackets, zero.
And then we want to look inside that post for the IDE and be sure to end this with a semicolon.
OK, let's go ahead and save that.
And now if I jump back to the front end and refresh.
And then if I right, click on the like box and inspect, cool, there's our new data attribute data
dash like if you have liked the current professor, this will contain a number that just happens to
be the I.D. for the relevant like post or in other words, this is the ID number of the post that we
want to delete.
So with that in place back in our JavaScript are like JS file within our delete, like Ajax request
for the data, let's say like should equal.
Current like box, and then we are interested in an attribute, so dot 8r and the attribute is named
data dash like, OK, and before we save this, if we are going to use the current lightbox variable
within this method, we want to be sure to include it as a parameter within our function definition.
So within these parentheses I will say current like box.
OK, we can go ahead and save.
Now, however, before we test out the ability to actually delete a post, I first want to cover something
else.
So if you manually refresh this page.
And then if I right, click on the light box and choose, inspect, obviously our server side page template
is responsible for outputting the lightpost ID, but what if we view a professor that we have not yet
liked?
So just as a quick example, if I go back into my admin dashboard and delete my existing like just as
a quick test, so move them to the trash.
Then I can even empty my trash.
OK, in that case, if I refresh the page, obviously, since I have not liked this professor yet,
when the page first loads that data attribute of data dash like is not going to contain a value.
The reason that's a problem is if I like a professor.
That updates are lightbox on the fly in real time, however, if I wanted to toggle or remove my like
right now, again without refreshing the page, well, that's where the problem comes into play because
that data dash like attribute is still empty.
So what we need to do in order to let users toggle back and forth between liking and unlike in is when
we create a like post within our success function.
Let's just update this data dash like value on the fly.
So to do that, back in our JavaScript, if we scroll up a bit back to our create like method within
its Ajax call, let's focus on the success callback function.
If a like post is successfully created, we are already filling in the heart, updating the number.
So now below those lines and maybe right above the console log, let's add a new line and let's just
say current like box and we want to work with one of its attributes.
So dot a TTR first argument is the name of the attribute.
So it's data dash like second argument is what you want to set its value to.
And we can just say response because remember, if we successfully create a like post, the WordPress
server sends back the ID number of that new post.
That will be the response so we can go ahead and use that here.
OK, and now why don't we set up an equal but opposite action within our delete like method, right?
If we successfully delete the relevant like instead of changing the heart to be filled, then we would
want to change the heart, to be a hollow outline.
And instead of increasing the number by one, we would want to decrease the number by one.
Basically just do the opposite of all of this.
So here's what I'm going to do.
Let's select from the beginning of this line down to the line, right above the console dialog.
OK, let's copy that into our clipboard.
And then if we scroll down to our delete like method within this Ajax call, let's focus on the success
callback.
So if we successfully delete a post right above this console, that log, let's just add a new line
and paste in our clipboard.
OK, then we just want to do the opposite of all of this, right.
So we want to set data exists to know we want to get the current like amount, but then instead of increasing
it by one, we want to decrease it by one.
So minus minus.
OK, this line is OK.
We just want to update the HTML like count and then for the data dash like attribute instead of setting
it to response.
In this context, let's just set it to an empty pair of quotes, OK?
And now the only thing are delete like method is missing is we need to give our Ajax called the secret
non's code so that WordPress can trust us.
So let's just scroll up to our create like method and within the Ajax call, just copy and paste the
entire before send property then down in our delete like Ajax call maybe right before the URL line paste
in your clipboard.
OK, and now we only have one more minor JavaScript change before we can finally set up the server side
delete function.
So hang in there with me.
If we scroll up to the very top of this JavaScript file within our hour click despatcher method.
I do need to point out that the query data method only looks at the data attribute values once when
the page first loads.
So if we want our users to be able to toggle back and forth between liking and on liking, liking and
unlike in the query, data method is not going to work here.
So instead, let's delete that and just use the 8R method.
And the only difference is that instead of looking for exists, we want to look for data dash exists.
OK, so that's just a quick J query tip.
If you want to pull in fresh updated attribute values, always use the 8R method.
OK, now as promised, let's go ahead and save this JavaScript file.
And now the final piece of our puzzle is to set up the server side delete function.
So within our theme folders I n c folder, let's jump into like Dasch route and if we scroll down to
the very bottom, we can find our delete like function.
Lets go ahead and delete this placeholder return line and let's begin by setting up a variable.
The name does not matter, but I'm going to name it like I said, and I'm going to set this to equal
whatever ide the incoming JavaScript request has sent along.
But first I want to sanitize it before working with it.
So sanitized text field and what do I want to sanitize.
Data.
Which is a rare look inside the array for like you just want this to match the name of the property
that you're sending from your JavaScript.
OK, and if I want to be able to access the data array from within this function, I want to be sure
to include it as a parameter.
So say data.
OK, cool, so now we've got the idea of the post that we want to delete, so on a new line we can just
say WPE delete posts, then these parentheses, we give it to arguments.
The first argument is obviously the idea of the post that you want to delete.
And the second argument is if you want to send it to the trash first or if you just want to skip the
trash and completely delete it.
If you say true, you are skipping the trash step.
Now, I need to point out that this is the most insecure code perhaps ever written in the history of
WordPress.
So before we save this, we definitely need to wrap this line of code within an IF statement because
we are creating a custom API endpoint, which means the rest API is not going to babysit permissions
for us.
We need to set up our own basic permission check.
Let me show you what I mean.
So go ahead and cut this line into your clipboard so that we have it ready, but we are temporarily
removing it.
And let's write an if statement.
So if parentheses, curly brackets and for the condition check, let's say only if we get current user
I.D. equals and then let's say the author ID of the post that they are trying to delete.
So that way a malicious user can't just go around deleting whatever post they feel like.
Instead they can only delete something if they're the one who created it.
So if the current user ID matches and then let's say get post field and you give this to arguments,
the second argument is the idea of the post that you want information about.
So let's say like I'd write that variable we created and the first argument is what information you
want about that post.
So let's just say post author and we could even be a bit more restrictive with the if statement.
And in between these two closing parentheses, we could say, and let's make sure that we get post type
of whatever ide they're trying to delete.
Let's make sure that that equals like OK, so if both of those things are true, then within the if
statement we can paste in our clipboard and then right after the if closing curly brackets let's say
else, otherwise let's cancel the current request.
So die and return a message of you do not have permission to delete that.
And just as a best practice, why don't we make sure to return something within the success area?
So after we delete the post right below that line, we can say return congrats like deleted.
Be sure to end the line with a semicolon and let's save this and test it out.
So perform a hard refresh on the front end.
I've already liked Dr. Rogerson's, so if I click on the box, cool.
It deletes my like but I could click it again to add the like back.
And now if I open this same page and another window where I'm logged in with my subscriber account,
we see a count of one because the admin account liked it.
And if I click on it with my subscriber account that boosts it up to two.
Or I could click it again to toggle it back down to one.
Beautiful.
And that's going to bring this lesson and this section to a close.
Let's keep things rolling and I will see you in the next section.